Imagine you maintained
a website that
received millions of hits a day.
You can frame this as
a k-armed bandit problem.
The estimated values
correspond to
the total amount of money
generated by each ad,
and your goal is to display
the ad which will
generate the most money.
How can you keep your value
estimates up-to-date without
storing the data for
millions of clicks?
By the end of this video,
you'll be able to: describe how
action values can be
estimated incrementally,
identify how the
incremental update rule is
an instance of a more
general learning rule,
and describe how
the general learning rule
can be used in
non-stationary problems.
The sample average method
can be written in
a recursive manner.
By doing so, we can avoid
storing all the previous data.
Let's see how that works.
To do so, we're going to pull
the current reward
out of the sum.
Now, the sum only goes
until the previous reward.
We write our next value estimate
in terms of our previous
value estimate.
To do so, we multiply and divide
the current sum by N minus one.
By multiplying and dividing
by the same thing,
we are effectively
multiplying by one.
The circle term should
look familiar to you.
This is just our
definition of Q_n,
the current value estimate.
We can simplify this equation
a little further.
We distribute Q_n
to get this form.
Finally, we pull nQ_n out of
the sum and multiply
by one over n. Now,
we have an incremental update
rule for estimating values.
This equation is of
a form that will
show up many times
throughout the course.
Let's define some of these terms.
The error in the estimate
is the difference
between the old estimate
and the new target.
Taking a step towards
that new target will create
a new estimate that
reduces our error.
Here, the new reward
is our target.
The size of the step
is determined by
our step size parameter
and the error of
our old estimate.
We now have a general rule for
updating the estimate
incrementally.
The step size can
be a function of
n that produces a number
from zero to one.
In the specific case
of the sample average,
the step size is
equal to one over
n. Let's go back to
our friendly doctor.
What if one of
the treatments was more
effective under
certain conditions?
Specifically, let's
say the treatment B
is more effective during
the winter months.
This is an example of
a non-stationary bandit problem.
These problems are like
the bandit problems
we've discussed before,
except the distribution of
rewards changes with time.
The doctor is unaware of
this change but would
like to adapt to it.
One option is to use
a fixed step size.
If Alpha_n is constant like 0.1,
then the most recent rewards
affect the estimate more
than older rewards.
This graph shows the amount of
weight the most recent award
receives versus the reward
received T time steps ago.
The weighting fades
exponentially with time.
As we move to the right
on the x-axis,
we go further back in time.
See why this is true,
let's take a look again
at the incremental
update equation.
Let's first distribute
Alpha and rearrange.
We can write the next value as
a weighted sum of the reward
and the last value.
Notice the recursive form.
We can substitute
the definition of
Q_n into this equation
and we get this.
Then we can distribute
1 minus Alpha,
and we get an equation that
shows the relationship
between R_n and R_n minus one.
We can unroll this recursive
relationship further.
We continually replace Q with
its definition until
we get all the
way back to
the initial value Q_1.
Finally, let's clean
up this long equation.
We write it as
our initial value of
Q plus a weighted sum of
the rewards over time.
What does this equation tell us?
It relates our current
estimate of the value,
Q_n plus one to Q one,
and all the observed rewards.
The first term tells us
that the contribution of
Q_1 decreases
exponentially with time.
The second term tells us
the rewards further back in
time contribute exponentially
less to the sum.
Taken all together, we
see that the influence of
our initialization of Q
goes to zero with
more and more data.
The most recent
rewards contribute
most to our current estimate.
In this video, we derived
an incremental update for
the sample average method.
We generalized the
incremental update rule into
a form that will be revisited
throughout the course.
Finally, we discussed
how a constant step size
might help solve
non-stationary bandit problems.